# STOR-390-Final-Project

This repository contains my final project for STOR 390 - Machine Moral Learning at UNC-Chapel Hill in the Spring semester of 2024. In this project I am attempting to review this article: https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0894439319882896 on both its statistical, and ethical merits. The article uses digital trace data to try to predict election outcomes. In my paper there are 4 different sections titled: Introduction, Analysis of Methods, Analysis of Normative Concern, and Conclusion. In the Analysis of Methods section I explain the methods the authors use to predict the outcomes of elections, and share the results of their work. In the Analysis of Normative Concern section I provide a moral framework, then apply it to the authors methods to see how permissible their actions are in accordance to that moral framework. 

**disclaimer and apology:**
As part of this project, there is a requirement to "provide some novel analysis of your own." This is undeniably a requirement that I did not satisfy in my writing. To be completely honest, I never really understood what that requirement was asking for, and instead of going to my instructor and asking for clarification on what the requirement was asking for, or even just asking for help on _attempting_ to apply the methods myself, I chose to go at it on my own without knowing what I was meant to do. The "analysis of methods" section of my writing undoubtedly falls short of the expectations set by my instructor. 

In retrospect, there were many things I could have done differently in working on this project. From choosing a different paper with methods I understood better, and may have been able to apply. To just speaking with my instructor about the struggles I was having while working on this project. Instead, I chose to procrastinate working on a final project that was given to us on the first day of class. I chose to give myself a week and a half to work on this independently despite knowing that I did not have a strong enough base in ML algorithms to do this all of my own. There was never once a point where I understood what a "simulation study aimed to verify a result" even looks like, let alone how to do it. Nor what was meant by, "recreating a proof of a theoretical result." But I never asked for clarification on what I was meant to do, or how to do it, so I am overwhelmingly at fault for the state of this section of my project. 

Additionally, I will attach the R script file with some of my attempts at generating data to work with for my own individual analysis. These are just attempts, and do not show up in my final paper itself because I do not know what I am doing. I just feel the need to show that I have done some work in R. With all of that said, I sincerely apologize to you, Andy. You are not getting my best work here, and I would be lying if I implied you were. I'm not asking for grace, nor leniency as you grade this, I am just providing context to you before you get the chance to look at my work. 

